You may already know the Business
Model Canvas, which is the
business model.
It is one of the most important
tools of business strategy
and serves us to describe,
analyze and evolve any
business model.
However, what we’re going to see
today is an evolution of Canvas and
it’s called Link Canvas and is more
thought of for innovative business
models in its early stages.
Because it incorporates a number
of factors, changes the structure,
removes some of the Canvas factors
and replaces it with others that
are, for example, the problem,
the solution, it is much more oriented
to this, to describe an innovation.
I recommend that whenever you
have a new idea, when a new
project arises, you draw the business
model, but do so, first do
it in the Link Canvas because
it is easier to describe and
it is easier to analyze that
innovation, identify in this
way what are the main
hypotheses of that business
model.
Now you will understand why.
Let’s start by identifying what
the problem you’re going to solve.
Usually a new proposal is born of
the identification of a problem,
one or several problems that our
customers have but that we want
or that has not been achieved
to give a solution or that
we can give a better solution
to those problems.
Problems can be of all kinds,
but the larger the problems and
the more intense those problems
are, if we are able to give
a solution, we will have a
larger business.
What we will do also in Link Canvas
is to describe how our customers
currently respond to those
problems, how they solve
them today.
At this point we also have
to identify who the customer
segments we are going
to address, as in the Visa
Model Canvas.
What we’re going to do here is
also identify who the Early
Adopters are.
This is a very important concept.
Early Adopters are very important
because they are your customers
or the customer segment that
is really waiting for a proposal
like yours.
Or the segment of customers for
whom your proposal fits perfectly
and will help you in many
things.
They will really help you create
your product, develop, find
your business model because
they are the first customers
you will have.
You will be able to learn them more easily
and they will allow you to learn from
the beginning.
Learn what they need,
how customers act,
etc.
And also, as the first you will go
to the market with a product that
will not be the final product, but
will be a minimum viable version,
since Early Adopters are customers
who judge you less by that level
of detail because they are
really waiting for what you
have to offer.
We have already identified
the problems we want to solve,
we have already identified who
are the customers who have
those problems and what we
have to define is what are
the solutions we provide
to each of those problems.
This is how our product solves
those problems that customers
have.
From here, what we will do
is describe our value
proposition.
As with the Business Model
Canvas, this central block
describes what we offer and
we will try to do it
in a very clear, simple
and direct way.
That is, a direct message in which
we describe what we offer and
why we are different from the rest.
We also have to define, like
in the Business Model Canvas,
how we will reach our
customer segment.
What are the distribution
channels?
How will it be?
We will get through direct, indirect,
inbound, outbound, digital
marketing channels.
We need to identify
and describe it.
The incorporation of Link Canvas
is the block of competitive advantage.
This is very important in innovative models
and is something that is highly valued.
The fact that you have something
that can’t easily be copied by
your potential competitors.
If you can have a strong competitive
advantage, generate entry barriers,
well, because your business
model will be much more
valuable.
All this will obviously generate
some income flows that we
have to identify and a cost
or expenditure structure that
we have to analyze as well.
And finally, another of
the incorporations of Link Canvas
is that it helps us identify which
are or obliges us to identify
which are the business key metrics.
And they don’t have to be too many
because it’s preferable to define
or focus on a few metrics.
And you will learn to identify
them because they are not usually
traditional, they are not sales, they
are not the number of customers, but
it is better to incorporate, especially
in the initial phases, another
series of metrics that are
more representative of customer
behavior.
Whether customers repeat or not, if
customers do not recommend to
others, metrics representative of
value, of the value they are perceiving,
metrics representative
of what it is hard for us
to capture a customer, etc.
Well, we will see it in more detail.
As you can see, Link Canvas is a
canvas that is more thought out for
an innovative business model.
And that helps a lot to
analyze it, helps a lot to
have an integral perspective of
that idea that you have had,
how it is concrete in a business
model and what are the hypotheses
that we will have to validate
from each of the blocks
to be able to validate
or to find a business model
that really makes sense.